[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: Let's take a look at what
our bundle looks while we're developing
our code.
And you all can follow along, and see what
this looks like in your own browsers too.
So if we say npm run dev.
Pull up our dev server,
where did my app go.
So here I'm going to go into sources and
I'm gonna move this guy over.
We're going to helpers, there are a bunch
of helpers in here that we're using,
module.exports for, yeah.
So, and this is actually transpiled code,
because actually in this source
code we go to helpers.js,
this is module exports equals.
Actually I didn't check
out the next branch.
>> Kent C Dodds: Hold on.
Yeah.
Okay, so now it's an export,
an ES6 export.
Fun stuff.
So now it is transpiled code.
Well it was before, but
it's even more now somehow.
And Babel is going to turn it
into something more like this,
it's effectively the same thing.
Babel transpiles the ES6
modules down to CommonJS,
and then webpack after that
transpolation happens,
webpack resolves all the dependencies for
us.
And so it's exporting all these functions,
but what if I told you that
there are two of these functions that
aren't in use anywhere in the code base?
Would you be able to find them?
Just raise your hand,
how would you find functions that
aren't in use in the code base?
>> Speaker 2: Google search.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah like find and
replace or do a grip.
Yeah, it's not easy to
do that with JavaScript.
Maybe with TypeScript,
but yeah, with JavaScript,
that's a difficult thing to do.
So the cool thing with the ES6 modules
is that they're totally static, and so
what that means is I can't dynamically
add things to the export and
I can't dynamically make modifications
to what's being exported.
It all has to happen in the text.
What that means is you don't have
to run the application to know
what's going to be exported.
And so webpack is gonna look at this and
say okay, I see that this helpers module
exports leftPad and remove and
all these other utility functions.
And everywhere else in the application,
I'm gonna find,
okay helpers is being used here and
it's using log, and it will go into here,
helpers is being used here and
it's using those things.
And so it can determine by itself that,
so let's see helpers,
nowhere is anyone using remove or leftPad.
Which I think is appropriate.
So we can actually remove
that from our code base but
we'd have to ourselves find that and
remove it manually.
Because there's no way for
anyone to be sure because of
JavaScript's dynamic nature.
And so webpack can't do this yet
though, because webpack is using,
or because we're using Babel to transpile
our ES6 module so it works in the browser.
And so we're using the Babel ES2015
plugin, or preset,
which includes a plugin to transpile
these modules to CommonJS.
And so what we want to do is we
want to not have it transpile
those modules just transpile
everything else except for the modules.
And then webpack can take those modules
and resolve them just like it would with
CommonJS, but
it can do some extra fancy things.
And so if you've got your editor open,
this is a pretty simple change.
If you go to .babelrc, and I'm just gonna
format this a little bit differently.
So, to provide options to presets, or
plugins, you take the item of
the array that you want to modify.
So, we want to say hey ES2015,
I don't care about modules.
So, we're gonna take that and
turn that into an array itself.
And the first item of the array is
the name of the preset that you wanna use,
the second item in the array are the
options that are passed to that preset.
And this literally just happened
last week they added this,
used to be you have to install
a different preset all together.
But yeah so we'll say modules is false.
And you can also say modules is UMD.
Or modules is AMD or CommonJS, I'm
pretty sure those are the only options.
But by doing that if you restart your
webpacks server cuz you've changed some
configuration here,
then you go into your source files,
you're gonna see something
quite different.
The way that it has been implemented,
or transpiled,
is very different and the way that
it's being transpiled is from webpack.
And one cool thing here is you'll
see that you have something for
QS and QSA, and all these are the ones.
But then you'll see this comment that
says unused harmony export remove and
unused harmony export leftPad.
So those two modules aren't being
used anywhere in the code base,
it was able to statically
analyze our code base to know.
And that those aren't being in use, but
one thing that it didn't do
that you might expect it would.
Is it did not remove the code for
those functions from our module.
The reason that it did that is because
that's not webpack's responsibility,
it's just managing or
transpiling the imports and exports.
And it leaves removing
this code to UglifyJS.
Does everybody, or who knows what
UglifyJS is, and what its purpose is?
Okay so, UglifyJS it's pretty
much the defacto minifier for
JavaScript and it goes through your
JavaScript and it changes variable names.
And it makes everything as
small as it possibly can.
And its purpose is to make it
optimized for delivery to the browser.
Because the JavaScript engine doesn't care
that this variable name is called array.
It just cares that all of the instances
of this variable name are the same.
And so you can change that to A and that
saves on characters which saves on bytes
which saves on time for
the browser to load it.
One of the other cool things
optimization that Uglify does is it
identifies code that's
not being used anywhere.
And so because webpack is saying
okay this module isn't being used.
So I'm not going to add
a webpack require line for it.
It's being exported but
it's not being used anywhere so
I don't need to add that line.
Then Uglify is gonna look through
this file and it's going to say,
it's not in use anywhere so
I can safely delete this code and
the program will be exactly the same as if
it were there, except it will be faster,
less memory and less bytes for the user.
Same thing will happen to leftPad.
So yeah that's fun.
Anybody have any questions about how true
shaking works or how to leverage it.
>> Speaker 3: There was a question if
there is something similar for ES5.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so
it is only possible to do this with ES6.
However you don't have to author
all of your code using ES6.
Webpack understands the ES6 module syntax.
Webpack 2 does, this is not a webpack
1 feature, I should've mentioned that.
And so you could author the rest
of your code base in ES5 and
just do modules with ES6 and
webpack will transpile that for you.
So with TypeScript I'm not certain of the
way to tell it to not transpile modules.
I think with TypeScript 2 that's possible,
but I've not used TypeScript.
So you'd have to look,
any other questions?
Martin asked should I gzip Uglified code,
does that have measurable effects?
Absolutely it does,
depending on the size of your program.
But it's likely that even
if it's not enormous,
you're still probably gonna save space.
And it will, it'll still be smaller.
And browsers are extremely fast at
uncompressing gzipped files so,
you generally don't need
to worry about that.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: The removal
of code from Uglify,
is that a standard feature of Uglify,
or is that an option you turn on?
Cuz I've never seen that happen.
>> Kent C Dodds: I was under the
impression that it was a standard feature.
We don't have to configure anything for
it to do it for us.
All we have is that -p for webpack.
And you can actually, I should should
mention also that with webpack
all that it's doing is it's adding
plugins to your config for you.
And so you could leave off the -p and
add those plugins yourself.
And kind of tweaking a little bit
yourself, and you can look at the docs for
those plugins.
>> Speaker 3: Was the output telling you
that it was removing that code though?
Because wouldn't it make more sense
to see that once and then go and
remove it yourself?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah good question.
So, yeah generally if it's in your
own code yeah you'd want to see.
Okay yeah there's no reason for
this code to exist anymore.
And if I want it back, I have get so
I can find it, so yeah.
As far as it logging out
maybe you could do that.
I'm sure they'd love
a pull request [LAUGH].
So yeah question.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so
Uglify will recognize that okay, yeah,
so, Scott is asking about
effectively whether
tree shaking works with
require statements.
It does not so the fact of the matter is
it has to be ES6 modules for this to work.
You can't use, because with require
you can do all kinds of really
interesting things with your exports
object to monkey patch things onto it.
So it's pretty much impossible to
statically analyze that stuff.
Effectively or
safely you might be able to get, have fun.
You could probably get a little ways
there, but yeah so it's gotta be ES6.
I would actually be really impressed,
yeah.
So you could probably get
a little ways there, but
it'd be a little dangerous I think.
Okay cool, so that's tree shaking.
Was a little underwhelming?
For me when I did it I was like
yeah that's a lot easier than I
thought it was, yeah.
So I thought it was this big dangerous
scary thing, but no that's pretty much it.
Let me just take a look at.
Okay, yeah so we are actually
in the dif here you can see.
I'm actually removing log from helpers.
Just to illustrate yet
another thing that can be removed.
But yeah,
then we end up removing log and leftPad.
But I leave remove in there because we're
gonna use it in one or two more steps.
So we'll use it here in a little bit.
>> Speaker 5: But you didn't have to
do that because for the tree shake.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah exactly.
So I can I can fill my coat up with
all the garbage that I want to and
my co-workers will hate me and
will all have a hard time maintaining it.
But at least my users won't
have a problem with that.
So yeah, good question.
Okay, cool,
any last minute questions from anybody
before we talk about code splitting?
This one's fun.
So, actually,
does anybody wanna venture a guess at what
code splitting is and why you need it?
Or where'd it be useful.
Is there a question?
Okay, that's fine.
What happens when you don't
set modules to false?
Well if you leave off modules false
then it's going to by default
transpile it to CommonJS and hence webpack
won't be able to statically analyze it.
So you don't get tree shaking,
effectively.
You can set it to UMD,
which is universal module definition.
I can't actually think of any use
case you do that in an application.
Well I don't even need to explain it.
You can look it up later, it's great.
And then you can also set it to AMD and
I can't imagine why you'd
ever wanna do that either, so
yeah, pretty much just leave it alone or
set it to false.
If you're bundling with webpack just take
advantage of the native transpolation.